.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Emil Engler <engler+epitaph@unveil2.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd March 3, 2022
.Dt YHTTP_RESP_STATUS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm yhttp_resp_status ,
.Nm yhttp_resp_header ,
.Nm yhttp_resp_body
.Nd prepare the response to an HTTP request
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libyhttp
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In yhttp.h
.Ft int
.Fo yhttp_resp_status
.Fa "struct yhttp *yh"
.Fa "int status"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo yhttp_resp_header
.Fa "struct yhttp *yh"
.Fa "const char *name"
.Fa "const char *value"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo yhttp_resp_body
.Fa "struct yhttp *yh"
.Fa "const unsigned char *body"
.Fa "size_t nbody"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions prepare the response to an HTTP request, which will get
dispatched, once the callback function returns.
.Pp
All values passed to these functions are being deep-copied, including strings,
meaning that the caller is not required to keep its copy around.
.Pp
.Fn yhttp_resp_status
will set the HTTP status code of the response to
.Fa status .
.Fa status
must be between
.Qq 100
and
.Qq 999 .
By default, the status code
.Qq 200
is going to be used.
.Pp
.Fn yhttp_resp_header
sets the header field
.Fa name
to
.Fa value .
Passing
.Dv NULL
as the value will unset the header field.
Keep in mind, that certain header fields, most notably those involved in
the transfer, should not be set by the caller, such as
.Qq Content-Length
or
.Qq Transfer-Encoding .
.Pp
.Fn yhttp_resp_body
sets the message body of the response to
.Fa body .
Because
.Fa body
may contain binary data, the caller is required to provide its length through
.Fa nbody .
By default, no message body is being used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The functions return an integer indicating the error state.
.Bl -tag -width -Ds
.It Dv YHTTP_OK
Success (not an error).
.It Dv YHTTP_ERRNO
Low-level operating system failure.
See
.Xr errno 2
for details.
.It Dv YHTTP_EINVAL
Invalid arguments supplied.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Emil Engler Aq Mt engler+yhttp@unveil2.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
Using these functions outside of a callback function will result in undefined
behavior.
