.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Emil Engler <engler+yhttp@unveil2.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd May 7, 2022
.Dt YHTTP_DISPATCH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm yhttp_dispatch ,
.Nm yhttp_stop
.Nd run and stop the HTTP server
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libyhttp
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdint.h
.In yhttp.h
.Ft int
.Fo yhttp_dispatch
.Fa "struct yhttp *yh",
.Fa "void (*cb)(struct yhttp_requ *, void *)"
.Fa "void *udata"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo yhttp_stop
.Fa "struct yhttp *yh"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn yhttp_dispatch
runs the actual HTTP server associated with
.Fa yh .
It blocks until either an error has occurred or a call to
.Fn yhttp_stop
has been made.
.Pp
Whenever a valid HTTP request passes through,
.Fn yhttp_dispatch
will call
.Fa cb ,
with the arguments of type
.Vt "struct yhttp_requ *" ,
which is being explained later in the document, as well as with a
.Vt "void *" ,
which value is the one provided by
.Fa udata .
.Pp
.Fn yhttp_stop
stops the HTTP server associated with
.Fa yh
as soon as possible.
.Pp
The
.Vt "struct yhttp_requ"
is defined as follows:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct yhttp_requ {
	char			*path;
	char			*client_ip;
	unsigned char		*body;
	size_t			 nbody;
	enum yhttp_method	 method;

	void			*internal;
};
.Ed
.Bl -tag -width -Ds
.It Va path
The path of the HTTP request.
It does not contain the query string, which must be obtained with
.Xr yhttp_query 3
instead.
.It Va client_ip
The IP address of the client as a string.
.It Va body
The optional HTTP message body in requests such as POST as a binary string.
It is
.Dv NULL
if no message body is present within the request.
.It Va nbody
The length of
.Va body
or 0 if no message body is present within the request.
.It Va method
The request method of the HTTP request, such as
.Dv YHTTP_GET ,
.Dv YHTTP_HEAD ,
.Dv YHTTP_POST ,
and so on.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn yhttp_dispatch
function returns an integer indicating the error state.
.Bl -tag -width -Ds
.It Dv YHTTP_OK
Success (not an error).
.It Dv YHTTP_ERRNO
Low-level operating system failure.
See
.Xr errno 2
for details.
.It Dv YHTTP_EBUSY
.Fn yhttp_dispatch
is already running.
.It Dv YHTTP_EINVAL
Invalid arguments supplied.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn yhttp_stop
function returns an integer indicating the error state.
.Bl -tag -width -Ds
.It Dv YHTTP_OK
Success (not an error).
.It Dv YHTTP_ENOENT
.Fn yhttp_dispatch
is not running in the first place.
.It Dv YHTTP_EINVAL
Invalid arguments supplied.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Emil Engler Aq Mt engler+yhttp@unveil2.org .
